I did an episode with Ray Lewis and
ended up getting into talking to him
about what happened to him where you
know here's a guy everything going in
the right direction ends up being
charged with murder charges obviously uh
you know later dismissed but he he
really credits that part of his life
with having gone through that with
really having a positive impact on him
moving forward and just having made him
a better individual in the long term
it's been nearly a decade now since you
know what you went through in Eagle with
sexual assault charges obviously similar
to Lewis dismissed to what extent do you
think having gone through that it had a
positive impact on you and really made
you better long term well you know I
think it's uh it it it the challenge is
who you are as a person you know the to
have to go through something like that
you know with uh not only individually
but you know as a family and then you
know for the organization the lers
organization my
teammates it was extremely difficult and
you kind of had to do some soul
searching you because you're fighting
numerous battles at the same time and
you're just kind of trying to figure
your way through all of this mess and
the only thing that you can do is just
put one foot in front of the other and
just continue to move forward I mean and
there's nothing else you can do I mean
there's times where it just seems like
days are just endless like the this is
never going to end this this this
feeling this dark time is just never
going to be over and I think once you go
through something like that you can't
help but be different you can't help but
have uh a better sense of who you are
and it's um yeah I mean Ray and I have
had conversations about that he's yeah
he's a good friend of mine and we we've
had those type of conver ation of going
through things like that and a lot of
you other players can't relate to that
to that sort of stuff to that type of
pressure that that's real pressure
that's life pressure it's not hitting
the game winning shot if if you make it
you win if you miss it you that's not
that's not pressure what did you and
Reay speak about when you had exactly
that exactly that about his time and
what he went through and then how he was
able to come out of it and how it made
him more determined and um for me it was
much the same well I mean with the court
case that was really the first time in
your life where you didn't have control
over your fate right what was that
experience like well you have to you
have to give it up you know you have to
give it up you have to release yourself
um and just kind of you know let things
be and and I think that helps your
maturity a lot when you when you try not
to control a
situation this is not a basketball game
where I have you know a lot of control
on an outcome and you really just got to
let it go and I think to do that you you
you instantly have to
mature and uh to be able to put yourself
in that emotional space where you can
you can trust the trust the process what
do you think you learned from the whole
experience I mean it's a lot that I've
learned through that experience and a
lot of uh things specifically that that
I went through during that process that
um I wish I could dive into but it's
just I think as a as a person it just
really teaches you how to how to let go
and how to trust and and and not try to
control everything um I think that
decreases your stress levels tenfold
when you're not worrying about the next
moment you're not worrying about what
this person may say you're not worrying
about what this outcome may be instead
you just kind of let go why do you think
you were able to still play basketball
so well um during that time probably
because I'm stubborn because you're
stubborn that's probably why why because
you know it was like you know on these
days I'm not going to stop playing I'm
not just because you guys think I should
stop playing just because you guys think
that I won't perform as well I'm going
to show you and and and truthfully it
was it was stress release for me cuz
I've been playing since I was two so
this is basketball has always been my
Escape it's always been the place of
Refuge for me so you know why should I
take that away now if anything the game
is going to keep me sane keep me stable
and and help me to be able to manage
these um various
situations for more clips from this
interview visit grah Bens singer.com
[Music]